# CS-340-Client-Server-Development

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

There are quite a few ways one can go when trying to write code/applications that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable. In terms of making code adaptable, I like to think about what my code needs to do, and how I can make it so this process will work for any input/scenario. This method really helps to make code adaptable. When you make code with the input type in mind, you are actively thinking on how you can make the program adapt to different kinds of input. For example, including input checks/validation in your code can make it much easier for your application to adapt to different types of input. Also, making sure to have variables in your code that can be used no matter what is stored inside is a part of the key to making code adaptable. 

After thinking about what my code needs to do in regard to adaptability, I look to what will make my code readable for myself and others. In terms of readability, I personally like for my code to be spaced out and well documented. By this, I mean that I like for my code to look neat and organized, rather than a jumbled up mess with no rhyme or reason. In order to accomplish this, I make sure to include proper indentation and spacing when writing my code. I also like to include comments as often as possible within my code because it is helpful for me and for others when trying to understand what the code does.

As for how I make my code maintainable; I pretty much just make sure my code can be easily edited and is modular. I try to keep most of my code separated in different files, where editing one file won't entirely effect the other files. Instead, edits within my code will require very little editing in other related files. For example, with the Project Two code, my CRUD Python module was held in a separate file than my actual web dashboard. This made it alot easier to maintain because editing one file did not massively impact the other file.

In my opinion, the advantages of working in this fashion is that the process of writing code that is readable, adaptable, maintainable, and reusable is broken down into simpler tasks. For me, this works really well because it allows me to have a step-by-step plan on how I can complete a project. I can focus on one task at a time, rather than trying to accomplish ten things at once. I can take my time and ensure that the code is correct by going one step at a time.

In the future, I could see myself possibly using some of the logic from my CRUD Python module for projects involving databases. I would have to change a few things around with the code, but the general basis of the code would be almost identical.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

When I am approaching a problem, I try to take my time with said problem. First, I review the problem over and over in my head until I determine what I need to accomplish or submit. Then, I try and break down the creation/development of the solution so that it can be accomplished in steps. From there, I begin to work on the solution step-by-step, constantly testing the solution until I have an adequate result. I make sure to do my research on the problem and solution prior to, and while working on the project. If I ever encounter a problem where my solution is not working, and I cannot figure it out even though I reasearched a ton, I know I need to take a break. Taking a small break whenever you are frustrated or stumped on a problem is very useful because it helps you to clear your mind. Having a clear mind makes it much easier when approaching a problem.

In terms of project 2 for this course, my approach to solving the problem was not much different from my usual approach. I made sure to review the problem multiple times in my head before actually starting the work. This involved reading all of the rubric requirements, submission requirements, and the actual code requirements. After looking over the requirements, I started to work on the code for the project one step at a time. This did take a bit of time, but it was worth it in the end because I developed a complete project. (A little side note here: I added comments/in-line documentation to my code after writing and testing the code. This works the best for me because I find it easier to explain what the code is doing that way.)I did not take many small breaks while working on this project, but I did have one or two times where I had to stop working on it to clear my head.

As for the future, I plan to continue using this process for pretty much any software project as it works well for me. (This includes projects involving databases) I am open to adapting it or changing processes entirely if need be, but I like what I currently have. (For database projects, I do want to involve more integration testing and possibly unit testing.)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists can do quite a lot with their skillsets. Some computer scientists focus on creating algorithms that work better for sorting or searching. Some computer scientists write code that connects users to interfaces and databases. Some computer scientists write code to manage networks of users and computers. Some computer scientists even write code that connects electracal equipment to an interface for users to use. These are just some very vague concepts of what a computer scientist can do, but it gets the point across. With the evolution of technology and how it has become more commonplace in daily life, computer science is rapidly expanding. There is a need for people who understand computer science because the demand for technological innovation has risen significantly. This increase in the demand for technological innovation has led the importance of computer science to grow, and for good reason. All in all, what computer scientists do is important because of how much our world nowadays depends on technology and software. 

The work that I performed for project 2 could help a company complete their work better in a few ways. For one, searching for animals would be much easier as it would only require a user to click a button to filter said animals. The work I performed for project 2 would also make it easier for a user to read the information for said animal because of the way it was displayed. I can also see how it might make it easier for a user to visualize their options for certain problems. Overall, I feel that the work I did in project 2 could help any company that uses a database because it would allow for said company to save time.
